amps.md, before:

+++
title = "Higgs Centre Amplitudes Meetings"
+++

# Higgs Centre Amplitudes Meetings

This is a weekly series of informal seminars at the [Higgs Centre for Theoretical Physics, Edinburgh University](https://higgs.ph.ed.ac.uk/), focusing on scattering amplitudes in quantum field theory and related topics, encouraging open discussions.

# Spring 2024

### 21 May: Mrigankamauli Chakraborty
TBA

### 14 May: Giulio Crisanti
TBA

### 07 May: Vasily Sotnikov
TBA

### 30 Apr: Riccardo Gonzo
TBA

### 23 Apr: Paolo Benincasa
TBA

### 02 Apr: Jiajie Mei
TBA

### 13 Feb: Carlo Heissenberg
An eikonal-inspired approach to the one-loop gravitational waveform

### 30 Jan: Sid Smith
Fourier Calculus from Intersection Theory

# Past Meetings

- [Autumn 2023](#Autumn 2023)
- [2022-2023](#2022-2023)
- [2021-2022](#2021-2022)

# Autumn 2023

### 07 Dec: Giuseppe de Laurentis

Non-Planar Two-Loop Amplitudes for Five-Parton Scattering

### 23 Nov: Kanghoon Lee

Binary black holes and quantum off-shell recursions

### 09 Nov: Ratan Sarkar

Isolation of 'Regions' with ASPIRE

### 26 Oct: Massimiliano Riva

Balance Laws in Gravitational Two-Body Scattering

### 19 Oct: Sebastian Pogel

Geometry in Feynman Integrals

## 2022-2023

### 04 Aug 2023: Canxin Shi

Classical double copy of worldline quantum field theory

### 30 Jun 2023: Temple He

Classical double copy of worldline quantum field theory
    
### 05 May 2023: Miguel Correia

Nonperturbative Anomalous Thresholds

### 28 Apr 2023: Piotr Bargiela

Three-loop four-particle QCD amplitudes

### 21 Apr 2023: Sid Smith

Introduction to Intersection Theory for Scattering Amplitudes

### 07 Apr 2023: Gregor Kalin

Gravitational Scattering at 4th Post-Minkowskian Order

### 31 Mar 2023: Zehao Zhu

Soft Anomalous Dimension for Multi-leg Processes involving both timelike and lightlike Wilson lines at 3 Loops

### 03 Feb 2023: Asaad Elkhidir

Large Gauge Effects and the Structure of Amplitudes

### 01 Dec 2022, Riccardo Gonzo

Bethe-Salpeter equation for classical gravitational bound states

### 24 Nov 2022, Andrea Cristofoli

Strong field amplitudes and classical physics

### 17 Nov 2022, Pavel Kovtun

Relativistic dissipation: from hydrodynamics to effective field theory

### 27 Oct 2022, Yao Ma

A geometric approach to the method of regions

### 20 Oct 2022, Jae Goode and Sam Teale

Diagrammatic Tensor Reduction

### 13 Oct 2022, Ingrid Holm

Classical radiation at one loop

### 29 Sep 2022, Andrea Pelloni

Computing DIS coefficient functions at 4-loop

### 22 Sep 2022, Eduardo Casali

Celestial holography and twistor strings

## 2021-2022

### 15 Jun 2022, Willian Norledge

Lie Theory of (Adjoint) Reflection Hyperplane

### 08 Jun 2022, Andrew McLeod

A New Amplitude/Form Factor Duality

### 18 May 2022, Kelian Haring

Gravitational Regge bounds

### 04 May 2022, Laura Johnson

On-shell Amplitudes for Supersymmetric Massive Gravity

### 27 Apr 2022, Rashid Alawadhi

The holonomy group and the double copy

### 20 Apr 2022, Guanda Lin

Color-kinematics duality and double-copy for form factors

### 30 Mar 2022, Emmet Byrne

The one-loop central emission vertex for two gluons in N=4 super Yang-Mills theory

### 16 Mar 2022, Christopher White

The case of the missing solutions: a biadjoint mystery

### 02 Mar 2022, Alasdair Ross

Uncertainty and Classical Amplitudes

### 23 Feb 2022, Nathan Moynihan

The Cotton Double Copy

### 16 Feb 2022, Atul Sharma

Advances in twistors and perturbative gravity

### 09 Feb 2022, Calum Milloy

Disentangling the Regge cut and Regge pole in perturbative QCD

### 25 Nov 2021, William Emond

Charge Quantization through Wilson Loops and the Double Copy

### 11 Nov 2021, Ben Page

Ansätze, Amplitudes and Singular Geometry

### 28 Oct 2021, Gang Chen

HEFT kinematic algebra, heavy double copy and classical gravitational scattering

### 21 Oct 2021, Leonardo de Cruz

Yang-Mills observables: from KMOC to eikonal through EFT

### 30 Sep 2021 Zeno Capatti

Local Unitarity

Commit message:

Update CV and delete html version. Update Amplitudes seminar list. Update Julia version.

amps.md, after:

+++
title = "Higgs Centre Amplitudes Meetings"
+++

# Higgs Centre Amplitudes Meetings

This is a weekly series of informal seminars at the [Higgs Centre for Theoretical Physics, Edinburgh University](https://higgs.ph.ed.ac.uk/), focusing on scattering amplitudes in quantum field theory and related topics, encouraging open discussions.

# Spring 2024

### 21 May: Mrigankamauli Chakraborty
TBA

### 14 May: Giulio Crisanti
TBA

### 07 May: Vasily Sotnikov
TBA

### 30 Apr: Riccardo Gonzo
TBA

### 23 Apr: Bakul Agrawal
TBA

### 02 Apr: Jiajie Mei
From on-shell Amplitudes to Cosmological Correlators

### 13 Feb: Carlo Heissenberg
An eikonal-inspired approach to the one-loop gravitational waveform

### 30 Jan: Sid Smith
Fourier Calculus from Intersection Theory

# Past Meetings

- [Autumn 2023](#Autumn 2023)
- [2022-2023](#2022-2023)
- [2021-2022](#2021-2022)

# Autumn 2023

### 07 Dec: Giuseppe de Laurentis

Non-Planar Two-Loop Amplitudes for Five-Parton Scattering

### 23 Nov: Kanghoon Lee

Binary black holes and quantum off-shell recursions

### 09 Nov: Ratan Sarkar

Isolation of 'Regions' with ASPIRE

### 26 Oct: Massimiliano Riva

Balance Laws in Gravitational Two-Body Scattering

### 19 Oct: Sebastian Pogel

Geometry in Feynman Integrals

## 2022-2023

### 04 Aug 2023: Canxin Shi

Classical double copy of worldline quantum field theory

### 30 Jun 2023: Temple He

Classical double copy of worldline quantum field theory
    
### 05 May 2023: Miguel Correia

Nonperturbative Anomalous Thresholds

### 28 Apr 2023: Piotr Bargiela

Three-loop four-particle QCD amplitudes

### 21 Apr 2023: Sid Smith

Introduction to Intersection Theory for Scattering Amplitudes

### 07 Apr 2023: Gregor Kalin

Gravitational Scattering at 4th Post-Minkowskian Order

### 31 Mar 2023: Zehao Zhu

Soft Anomalous Dimension for Multi-leg Processes involving both timelike and lightlike Wilson lines at 3 Loops

### 03 Feb 2023: Asaad Elkhidir

Large Gauge Effects and the Structure of Amplitudes

### 01 Dec 2022, Riccardo Gonzo

Bethe-Salpeter equation for classical gravitational bound states

### 24 Nov 2022, Andrea Cristofoli

Strong field amplitudes and classical physics

### 17 Nov 2022, Pavel Kovtun

Relativistic dissipation: from hydrodynamics to effective field theory

### 27 Oct 2022, Yao Ma

A geometric approach to the method of regions

### 20 Oct 2022, Jae Goode and Sam Teale

Diagrammatic Tensor Reduction

### 13 Oct 2022, Ingrid Holm

Classical radiation at one loop

### 29 Sep 2022, Andrea Pelloni

Computing DIS coefficient functions at 4-loop

### 22 Sep 2022, Eduardo Casali

Celestial holography and twistor strings

## 2021-2022

### 15 Jun 2022, Willian Norledge

Lie Theory of (Adjoint) Reflection Hyperplane

### 08 Jun 2022, Andrew McLeod

A New Amplitude/Form Factor Duality

### 18 May 2022, Kelian Haring

Gravitational Regge bounds

### 04 May 2022, Laura Johnson

On-shell Amplitudes for Supersymmetric Massive Gravity

### 27 Apr 2022, Rashid Alawadhi

The holonomy group and the double copy

### 20 Apr 2022, Guanda Lin

Color-kinematics duality and double-copy for form factors

### 30 Mar 2022, Emmet Byrne

The one-loop central emission vertex for two gluons in N=4 super Yang-Mills theory

### 16 Mar 2022, Christopher White

The case of the missing solutions: a biadjoint mystery

### 02 Mar 2022, Alasdair Ross

Uncertainty and Classical Amplitudes

### 23 Feb 2022, Nathan Moynihan

The Cotton Double Copy

### 16 Feb 2022, Atul Sharma

Advances in twistors and perturbative gravity

### 09 Feb 2022, Calum Milloy

Disentangling the Regge cut and Regge pole in perturbative QCD

### 25 Nov 2021, William Emond

Charge Quantization through Wilson Loops and the Double Copy

### 11 Nov 2021, Ben Page

Ansätze, Amplitudes and Singular Geometry

### 28 Oct 2021, Gang Chen

HEFT kinematic algebra, heavy double copy and classical gravitational scattering

### 21 Oct 2021, Leonardo de Cruz

Yang-Mills observables: from KMOC to eikonal through EFT

### 30 Sep 2021 Zeno Capatti

Local Unitarity
