index.md, before:

+++
title = "Mao Zeng, University of Edinburgh"
+++
<!-- @def tags = ["syntax", "code"] -->

# Mao Zeng's Home Page

@@img-tiny
![Portrait](/assets/portrait.jpg)
@@

Contact: mao.zeng <A.T.> ed.ac.uk

I am a Royal Society University Research Fellow at the [Higgs Centre for Theoretical Physics, University of Edinburgh](https://higgs.ph.ed.ac.uk/). I obtained my BA and MA from Cambridge University, U.K., and PhD from Stony Brook University, USA, under the advice of Prof. George Sterman. I previously held research positions at UC Los Angeles (2015-2018), ETH Zürich (2018-2020), and Oxford University (2021).

My research focuses on precision calculations in quantum field theory, bringing together modern methods for scattering amplitudes, state-of-the-art loop integration techniques, and effective field theories.

Recent research highlights include precise computations for LHC processes with a large number of final-state particles, and applications of quantum field theory methods to binary black hole dynamics probed by gravitational wave detectors.

Links to my publications: [INSPIRE](https://inspirehep.net/authors/1310565?ui-citation-summary=true) | [arXiv](https://arxiv.org/a/zeng_m_1)

### Seminars and Conferences

I'm co-organizing [Higgs Centre Amplitudes Meetings](/amps/).

I'm co-organizing the 2024 MIAPbP workshop, [EFT and Multi-loop Methods for Advancing Precision in Collider and Gravitational Wave Physics](https://www.munich-iapbp.de/eft-multi-loop-methods).

Commit message:

Link to self-force workshop.

index.md, after:

+++
title = "Mao Zeng, University of Edinburgh"
+++
<!-- @def tags = ["syntax", "code"] -->

# Mao Zeng's Home Page

@@img-tiny
![Portrait](/assets/portrait.jpg)
@@

Contact: mao.zeng <A.T.> ed.ac.uk

I am a Royal Society University Research Fellow at the [Higgs Centre for Theoretical Physics, University of Edinburgh](https://higgs.ph.ed.ac.uk/). I obtained my BA and MA from Cambridge University, U.K., and PhD from Stony Brook University, USA, under the advice of Prof. George Sterman. I previously held research positions at UC Los Angeles (2015-2018), ETH Zürich (2018-2020), and Oxford University (2021).

My research focuses on precision calculations in quantum field theory, bringing together modern methods for scattering amplitudes, state-of-the-art loop integration techniques, and effective field theories.

Recent research highlights include precise computations for LHC processes with a large number of final-state particles, and applications of quantum field theory methods to binary black hole dynamics probed by gravitational wave detectors.

Links to my publications: [INSPIRE](https://inspirehep.net/authors/1310565?ui-citation-summary=true) | [arXiv](https://arxiv.org/a/zeng_m_1)

### Seminars and Conferences

I'm co-organizing [Higgs Centre Amplitudes Meetings](/amps/).

I'm co-organizing the [Higgs Centre Workshop on Gravitational Self-Force and Scattering Amplitudes](https://higgs.ph.ed.ac.uk/workshops/gravitational-self-force-and-scattering-amplitudes/)

I'm co-organizing the 2024 MIAPbP workshop, [EFT and Multi-loop Methods for Advancing Precision in Collider and Gravitational Wave Physics](https://www.munich-iapbp.de/eft-multi-loop-methods).
